docs/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic.md, before:

---
title: "How to Import-Export Forms with Paymattic"
category: "Import - Export"
---

# How to Import-Export Forms with Paymattic

[Paymattic](https://paymattic.com/) allows you to transfer forms between WordPress sites using import/export functionality. This guide explains how to move your forms efficiently.

## Import Forms

### Access Import Tool

1. Go to **All Forms** from the **Paymattic Navbar**
2. Click **+ Add New Form**

![Add new form](/images/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Add-New-Form-button-scaled.webp)

3. Select the **Import Form** tab

![Import tab](/images/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Import-Form-tab-scaled.webp)

### Import Process

1. Click the **Download Icon** to browse your device
2. Select your form file
3. Click **Import**

:::warning File Format
Forms must be in JSON format to import into Paymattic.
:::

![Import form](/images/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Import-Button.webp)

The imported form will appear in your **All Forms** list:

![Imported form](/images/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Preview-of-imported-form-scaled.webp)

## Export Forms

1. Go to **All Forms** from the **Paymattic Navbar**
2. Find the form to export
3. Click its **Three-dot-icon**
4. Select **Export Form**

The form will download in JSON format.

![Export form](/images/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Export-Form-button-scaled.webp)

:::tip Need Help?
If you have any questions, concerns, or suggestions, please [contact our support team](https://wpmanageninja.com/support-tickets/).
:::

Commit message:

Update how to Import-Export Forms with Paymattic doc
Update how to Import-Export Forms with Paymattic doc

docs/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic.md, after:

---
title: "How to Import-Export Forms with Paymattic"
category: "Import - Export"
---

# How to Import-Export Forms with Paymattic

[Paymattic](https://paymattic.com/) allows you to Import and Export forms between websites and saves you from the hassle of creating new forms. This article will guide you through the process of how you can Import and Export your forms through Paymattic.


## Importing Forms 

To learn how you can Import forms from other platforms to Paymattic, follow the steps with the screenshots below – 

First, go to **All Forms** from the **Paymattic Navbar** where you have all your existing forms.

Now, click the **+ Add New Form** button to **Import** a new form.

![Add new form](/images/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Add-New-Form-button-scaled.webp)

Now, click the **Import Form** tab as it allows you to import your JSON format forms from other platforms to Paymattic.

![Import tab](/images/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Import-Form-tab-scaled.webp)

Now click the **Download** Icon to select the desired form from your device.

Once you choose the form, click the **Import** button. 

:::warning File Format
The form file must be in JSON format to import into Paymattic.
:::

![Import form](/images/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Import-Button.webp)

Here, you can see that the form is **imported successfully** and added to All Forms sections.

![Imported form](/images/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Preview-of-imported-form-scaled.webp)

## Exporting Forms

To learn how you can Export forms from Paymattic to other platforms, follow the steps with the screenshots below – 

First, go to **All Forms** from the **Paymattic Navbar** where you have all your existing forms.

Now, click the **Three-dot-icon** option of the desired form you want to export, and press the **Export** Form button. And, your form will be exported in JSON format. 

![Export form](/images/import-export/how-to-import-export-forms-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Export-Form-button-scaled.webp)

This way you can easily Import/Export as many forms as you want in Paymattic!

:::tip Need Help?
If you have any questions, concerns, or suggestions, please [contact our support team](https://wpmanageninja.com/support-tickets/).
:::
