docs/manage-form-entries/how-to-disable-ip-address-logging-in-wordpress-with-paymattic.md, before:

---
title: "How to Disable IP Address Logging in WordPress with Paymattic?"
category: "Manage Form Entries"
---

How to Disable IP Address Logging in WordPress with Paymattic?

[Paymattic](https://paymattic.com/) automatically collects user IP addresses during form submissions to support advanced analytics. This guide explains how to manage IP address logging in your forms.

## Managing IP Address Logging

### Disable IP Address Collection

1. Go to **Settings** from the **Paymattic Navbar**
2. Select the **General Settings** tab
3. Scroll to **Other Settings**
4. Check **Disable IP Address Logging**

:::tip
To re-enable IP address collection, simply uncheck the **Disable IP Address Logging** option.
:::

![IP address settings](/images/manage-form-entries/how-to-disable-ip-address-logging-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/1.-Other-Settings-scaled.webp)

## Viewing IP Addresses

To check a submission's IP address:

1. Go to **Entries** from the **Paymattic Navbar**
2. Find your target entry
3. Click **View Details**

![Access entry details](/images/manage-form-entries/how-to-disable-ip-address-logging-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/2.-desired-form-entry-scaled.webp)

The IP address appears in the **Meta Info** section:

![View IP address](/images/manage-form-entries/how-to-disable-ip-address-logging-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/3.-View-IP-Address-scaled.webp)

When IP logging is disabled, the IP address field will be empty:

![Empty IP address](/images/manage-form-entries/how-to-disable-ip-address-logging-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/4.-empty-ip-address-scaled.webp)

:::tip Need Help?
If you have any questions, concerns, or suggestions, please [contact our support team](https://wpmanageninja.com/support-tickets/).
:::

Commit message:

disable ip address doc add

docs/manage-form-entries/how-to-disable-ip-address-logging-in-wordpress-with-paymattic.md, after:

---
title: "How to Disable IP Address Logging in WordPress with Paymattic?"
category: "Manage Form Entries"
---

How to Disable IP Address Logging in WordPress with Paymattic?

[Paymattic](https://paymattic.com/) offers to automatically collect the IP addresses of users when they submit a new form to help you perform advanced analytics. But you can disable this feature of collecting IP Addresses if needed. This article will guide you through how to disable IP Addresses from each form submission in Paymattic.

## Managing IP Address Logging

### Disable IP Address Collection

1. Go to **Settings** from the **Paymattic Navbar**
2. Select the **General Settings** tab
3. Scroll to **Other Settings**
4. Check **Disable IP Address Logging**

:::tip
To re-enable IP address collection, simply uncheck the **Disable IP Address Logging** option.
:::

![IP address settings](/images/manage-form-entries/how-to-disable-ip-address-logging-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/1.-Other-Settings-scaled.webp)

## Viewing IP Addresses

To check a submission's IP address:

1. Go to **Entries** from the **Paymattic Navbar**
2. Find your target entry
3. Click **View Details**

![Access entry details](/images/manage-form-entries/how-to-disable-ip-address-logging-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/2.-desired-form-entry-scaled.webp)

The IP address appears in the **Meta Info** section:

![View IP address](/images/manage-form-entries/how-to-disable-ip-address-logging-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/3.-View-IP-Address-scaled.webp)

When IP logging is disabled, the IP address field will be empty:

![Empty IP address](/images/manage-form-entries/how-to-disable-ip-address-logging-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/4.-empty-ip-address-scaled.webp)

:::tip Need Help?
If you have any questions, concerns, or suggestions, please [contact our support team](https://wpmanageninja.com/support-tickets/).
:::
