docs/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings.md, before:

---
title: "Customize Form-Specific Payment Settings"
category: "Form Settings"
---

# Customize Form-Specific Payment Settings

[Paymattic](https://paymattic.com/) allows you to customize the **settings** of your [Stripe](http://stripe.com) and [PayPal](http://paypal.com) payment methods for each form individually. For instance, if you have already set up the **Stripe/PayPal** payment method for transactions, you can use **Payment** settings to customize the settings or add different **Stripe**/**PayPal** accounts to specific forms.

This article will guide you through the process of using the **Payment** (Stripe and PayPal) settings for particular forms.

::: warning
**Remember**, this **Payment** settings in a form is a **Pro Feature**.
:::

## Payment Settings in a Specific Form

First, go to the **All Forms** section from the **Paymattic Navbar**, and open a **Payment Form** by clicking the **Pencil icon** that has **Stripe** and **PayPal** payment methods added.

::: tip
If you do not have any existing Payment form, read this [Documentation](../form-editor/how-to-create-your-first-payment-form-in-a-minute-and-accept-payments-with-paymattic) to learn how to Create a Payment Form. 

Additionally, read this [Documentation](../general-input-fields/how-to-use-the-payment-method-fields-section) to learn how you can add your desired Payment method/s to your form.
:::

For example, I choose an existing payment form where **Stripe** and **PayPal** both are added as payment methods to show the whole process.

![Opening a payment form in Paymattic](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/1.-Open-desired-form-1-scaled.webp)

Or, you can directly open the desired form's **Settings** tab by clicking the **Three-Dot Icon** and then pressing the **Settings** option from the dropdown list.

![Accessing form settings through three-dot menu](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/2.-Settings-option-under-Three-dot-icon--scaled.webp)

Once you open the **Editor** page, go to the **Settings** tab, click the **Payment** option, and you will get the following **Payment Settings** options:

1. Stripe Settings
2. PayPal Settings
3. Transaction Type

After completing the setup, must click the **Save Settings** button to save your changes.

![Payment settings section in form editor](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/3.-Payment-under-Form-Settings-scaled.webp)

**The Payment Settings mentioned above are explained below:**

### A. Form Specific Stripe Settings 

To change your Stripe Payment Settings for a specific form, follow the steps with the screenshots below –

![Stripe payment settings configuration](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/4.-Stripe-Settings.webp)

The three settings options mentioned above are briefly explained below:

#### 1. Stripe Meta Data

Enable this option by clicking the **Toggle** button if you want to send the collected submission data to your Stripe Dashboard through the Paymattic Form.

You can use the **Shortcode** button to set the value for sending necessary submission data automatically. To send more data click the **+Add More** button and delete any of the fields click the **Trash** icon.

For example, here, I chose to send the **Form Submission ID** from **Paymattic** to **Stripe Dashboard**.

![Stripe metadata configuration](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/5.-Stripe-Meta-Data.webp)

#### 2. Limit accepted methods

Here, you can choose the accepted payment methods for Stripe transactions to display on your checkout page by **checking the boxes individually**.

Or, you can select all at once by clicking the **Check all** checkbox.

![Configuring accepted payment methods](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/6.-Limit-accepted-methods.webp)

#### 3. Stripe Account

This will give you two options to set up your Stripe configuration for successful payment transactions. These are:

**As per global settings**: If you select this option, the configuration of Stripe that you have set up globally for all forms will also apply to this form. To learn the process of Stripe Configuration from Global Settings, read this [Documentation](../payment-method-fields/configure-stripe-payment-gateway-in-wordpress-through-paymattic).

**Custom Stripe Credentials**: Select this option if you want to set up a different Stripe Account only for this form. To add the stripe account, first, choose a **Payment Mode** between **Live** (for real payments) and **Test** (for test payments) modes as needed. Then, provide the **Publishable key** and **Secret key** from your **Stripe Account**.

::: tip
To learn how to get the **Publishable key** and **Secret key** from your **Stripe Account**, [click here](../payment-method-fields/configure-stripe-payment-gateway-in-wordpress-through-paymattic#getting-stripe-api-keys).
:::

![Stripe account configuration](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/7.-Stripe-Account.webp)

### B. Form Specific PayPal Settings

This will give you two options to set up your **PayPal** configuration for successful payment transactions. These are:

**As per global settings**: If you select this option, the configuration of PayPal that you have set up globally for all forms will also apply to this form. To learn the process of PayPal Configuration from Global Settings, read this [Documentation](../payment-method-fields/configure-paypal-in-wordpress-through-paymattic).

**Custom PayPal ID**: Select this option if you want to set up a different PayPal Account only for this form. To add the account, first, choose a **Payment Mode** between **Live** (for real payments) and **Test** (for test payments) modes as needed. Then, enter the email you signed up with on the [PayPal Account](https://www.paypal.com/signin) into the **PayPal Email** field.

![PayPal settings configuration](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/8.-PayPal-Settings.webp)

### C. Transaction Type

This settings option allows you to define the transaction type (**Donations** or **Products**/**Services**) to the payment method, ensuring a smooth payment process based on the purpose of collecting payments.

![Transaction type selection](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/9.-Transaction-Type.webp)

If you have any further questions, concerns, or suggestions, please do not hesitate to contact our [@support team](https://wpmanageninja.com/support-tickets/). Thank you.

Commit message:

How to Setup Email Notifications in Paymattic WordPress Plugin
How to Setup Email Notifications in Paymattic WordPress Plugin

docs/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings.md, after:

---
title: "Customize Form-Specific Payment Settings"
category: "Form Settings"
---

# Customize Form-Specific Payment Settings

[Paymattic](https://paymattic.com/) allows you to customize the **settings** of your [Stripe](http://stripe.com) and [PayPal](http://paypal.com) payment methods for each form individually. For instance, if you have already set up the **Stripe/PayPal** payment method for transactions, you can use **Payment** settings to customize the settings or add different **Stripe**/**PayPal** accounts to specific forms.

This article will guide you through the process of using the **Payment** (Stripe and PayPal) settings for particular forms.

::: warning Remember
This Payment settings in a form is a **Pro Feature** and you need [Paymattic Pro Plugin](https://paymattic.com/docs/how-to-install-and-activate-paymattic-in-wordpress/#3-toc-title) to use this feature.
:::

## Payment Settings in a Specific Form

First, go to the **All Forms** section from the **Paymattic Navbar**, and open a **Payment Form** by clicking the **Pencil icon** that has **Stripe** and **PayPal** payment methods added.

::: tip
If you do not have any existing Payment form, read this [Documentation](../form-editor/how-to-create-your-first-payment-form-in-a-minute-and-accept-payments-with-paymattic) to learn how to Create a Payment Form. 

Additionally, read this [Documentation](../general-input-fields/how-to-use-the-payment-method-fields-section) to learn how you can add your desired Payment method/s to your form.
:::

For example, I choose an existing payment form where **Stripe** and **PayPal** both are added as payment methods to show the whole process.

![Opening a payment form in Paymattic](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/1.-Open-desired-form-1-scaled.webp)

Or, you can directly open the desired form's **Settings** tab by clicking the **Three-Dot Icon** and then pressing the **Settings** option from the dropdown list.

![Accessing form settings through three-dot menu](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/2.-Settings-option-under-Three-dot-icon--scaled.webp)

Once you open the **Editor** page, go to the **Settings** tab, click the **Payment** option, and you will get the following **Payment Settings** options:

1. Stripe Settings
2. PayPal Settings
3. Transaction Type

After completing the setup, must click the **Save Settings** button to save your changes.

![Payment settings section in form editor](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/3.-Payment-under-Form-Settings-scaled.webp)

**The Payment Settings mentioned above are explained below:**

### A. Form Specific Stripe Settings 

To change your Stripe Payment Settings for a specific form, follow the steps with the screenshots below –

![Stripe payment settings configuration](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/4.-Stripe-Settings.webp)

The three settings options mentioned above are briefly explained below:

#### 1. Stripe Meta Data

Enable this option by clicking the **Toggle** button if you want to send the collected submission data to your Stripe Dashboard through the Paymattic Form.

You can use the **Shortcode** button to set the value for sending necessary submission data automatically. To send more data click the **+Add More** button and delete any of the fields click the **Trash** icon.

For example, here, I chose to send the **Form Submission ID** from **Paymattic** to **Stripe Dashboard**.

![Stripe metadata configuration](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/5.-Stripe-Meta-Data.webp)

#### 2. Limit accepted methods

Here, you can choose the accepted payment methods for Stripe transactions to display on your checkout page by **checking the boxes individually**.

Or, you can select all at once by clicking the **Check all** checkbox.

![Configuring accepted payment methods](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/6.-Limit-accepted-methods.webp)

#### 3. Stripe Account

This will give you two options to set up your Stripe configuration for successful payment transactions. These are:

**As per global settings**: If you select this option, the configuration of Stripe that you have set up globally for all forms will also apply to this form. To learn the process of Stripe Configuration from Global Settings, read this [Documentation](../payment-method-fields/configure-stripe-payment-gateway-in-wordpress-through-paymattic).

**Custom Stripe Credentials**: Select this option if you want to set up a different Stripe Account only for this form. To add the stripe account, first, choose a **Payment Mode** between **Live** (for real payments) and **Test** (for test payments) modes as needed. Then, provide the **Publishable key** and **Secret key** from your **Stripe Account**.

::: tip
To learn how to get the **Publishable key** and **Secret key** from your **Stripe Account**, [click here](../payment-method-fields/configure-stripe-payment-gateway-in-wordpress-through-paymattic#getting-stripe-api-keys).
:::

![Stripe account configuration](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/7.-Stripe-Account.webp)

### B. Form Specific PayPal Settings

This will give you two options to set up your **PayPal** configuration for successful payment transactions. These are:

**As per global settings**: If you select this option, the configuration of PayPal that you have set up globally for all forms will also apply to this form. To learn the process of PayPal Configuration from Global Settings, read this [Documentation](../payment-method-fields/configure-paypal-in-wordpress-through-paymattic).

**Custom PayPal ID**: Select this option if you want to set up a different PayPal Account only for this form. To add the account, first, choose a **Payment Mode** between **Live** (for real payments) and **Test** (for test payments) modes as needed. Then, enter the email you signed up with on the [PayPal Account](https://www.paypal.com/signin) into the **PayPal Email** field.

![PayPal settings configuration](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/8.-PayPal-Settings.webp)

### C. Transaction Type

This settings option allows you to define the transaction type (**Donations** or **Products**/**Services**) to the payment method, ensuring a smooth payment process based on the purpose of collecting payments.

![Transaction type selection](/images/form-settings/customize-form-specific-payment-settings/9.-Transaction-Type.webp)

If you have any further questions, concerns, or suggestions, please do not hesitate to contact our [@support team](https://wpmanageninja.com/support-tickets/). Thank you.
