docs/global-settings/how-to-manage-user-roles-in-wordpress-with-paymattic.md, before:

---
title: "How to Manage User Roles in WordPress with Paymattic?"
category: "Global Settings"
---

# How to Manage User Roles in WordPress with Paymattic?

[Paymattic](https://paymattic.com/) provides flexible user role management to control access to forms and features. This guide explains how to configure user permissions.

:::note Default Access
By default, only WordPress Administrators have full access to all forms and features.
:::

## Configure User Roles

### Access Settings

1. Go to **Settings** from the **Paymattic Navbar**
2. Click the **Permission** tab

### Assign Permissions

Choose which roles can access Paymattic:

- Check boxes for individual roles
- Use **Check All** to enable all roles
- Click **Save Settings** to apply changes

Example roles you might enable:
- Author
- Contributor
- Tutor Instructor
- Support Agent

![User role settings](/images/global-settings/how-to-manage-user-roles-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Paymattic-admin-Permission-page-scaled.webp)

::: tip Need Help?
If you have any questions, concerns, or suggestions, please [contact our support team](https://wpmanageninja.com/support-tickets/).
:::

Commit message:

How to Manage User Roles in WordPress with Paymattic doc update
How to Manage User Roles in WordPress with Paymattic doc update

docs/global-settings/how-to-manage-user-roles-in-wordpress-with-paymattic.md, after:

---
title: "How to Manage User Roles in WordPress with Paymattic?"
category: "Global Settings"
---

# How to Manage User Roles in WordPress with Paymattic?

[Paymattic](https://paymattic.com/) allows you to assign and manage user roles within WordPress, providing flexibility in controlling user access and permissions based on payments or subscriptions. This article will guide you on how to manage user roles efficiently using Paymattic.

> [!NOTE]Default Access
> By default, only WordPress Administrators have full access to all forms and features.

## Managing User Roles

To learn how to assign or modify the **User Roles** through Paymattic, follow the steps with the screenshots below – 

First, go to go to **Settings** from the Paymattic Navbar, click the **Permission** tab from the left sidebar, and all the user roles will appear.

Now, **select the roles** by clicking the **checkbox** you want to give access to your users.
For example, I selected the Author, Contributor, Tutor Instructor, and Support Agent roles.

Also, if you want to select all the roles at once, simply click the **Check All** button.
Once you select the roles, press the **Save Settings** button to save all the changes.


![User role settings](/images/global-settings/how-to-manage-user-roles-in-wordpress-with-paymattic/Paymattic-admin-Permission-page-scaled.webp)

::: tip Need Help?
If you have any questions, concerns, or suggestions, please [contact our support team](https://wpmanageninja.com/support-tickets/).
:::
