docs/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net.md, before:

---
title: "Configure Authorize.net in WordPress through Paymattic"
category: "Payment Method Fields"
---
# Configure Authorize.net in WordPress through Paymattic

[Authorize.net](https://www.authorize.net/) is a powerful payment plugin that allows you to secure and efficient transactions for your forms, subscriptions, or e-commerce needs. This article will guide you through **configuring** **Authorize.net** in your **WordPress** **Site** with the **Paymattic** plugin.

## Configuring Authorize.net Payment Method 

To learn how to configure the Authorize.net payment gateway through Paymattic, follow the steps with screenshots below:

First, go to **Payment Gateway** from the **Paymattic Navbar**, click the **Authorize.net** tab from the left sidebar, and the **Authorize.net Settings** page will open.

Click the **Install & Activate Authorizedotnet** button to connect Authorize.net with Paymattic.

::: warning Note
This add-on needs to be installed the first time you integrate with Authorize.net.
:::

![Install Authorize.net](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/1.-Install-Activate-Authorizedotnet-scaled.webp)

Once you are on the **authorize.net Settings** page, select any **Payment Mode** between **Test** (for test payments) and **Live** (for real payments) as both options follow the same configuration process, e.g., I choose the **Test Mode**.

![Payment Mode Settings](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/2.-Authorize-Settings-scaled.webp)

Then, you need to obtain the **API Login ID, Transaction key, Client Key,** and **Signature key** from your **Authorize.net Account**.

::: tip
To easily get access to the dashboard of your authorize.net account, click the **account dashboard** link as shown in the screenshot below.
:::

![Required Credentials](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/3.-Authorize-Required-Credentials-.webp)

### Get All the Required Credentials from Authorize.net

To learn how to get **Publishable key** and **Secret Key** from your [Authorize.net](https://www.authorize.net/), follow the steps with screenshots below:

First, log in to your Authorize.net account from [here](https://developer.authorize.net/hello_world/sandbox.html). If you do not have an account, sign up from [here](https://www.authorize.net/sign-up/pricing.html). 

::: info Example
For example, I signed in to a **Sandbox Account** to show you the further process.
:::

![Sandbox Login](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/4.-signin-to-Sandbox--scaled.webp)

Once you log in to the **Authorize.net Dashboard**, go to the **ACCOUNT** section from the **Navbar**, and click the **API Credentials & Keys** tab under the **Security Settings**.

![API Credentials](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/5.-API-Credentials-Keys.webp)

Here, you will get your desired **API Login ID**. Simply, **copy** it for later use.
Also, to get **Transaction** and **Signature Keys**, scroll down to the **Create New Key(s)** section.

Now, select the **New Transaction Key** radio button, and click the **Submit** button.

![API Login ID](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/6.-Copy-API-Login-ID.webp)

Here is your desired **Transaction Key**. Copy it by clicking the **Copy to Clipboard** button.

![Transaction Key](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/6.-Copy-Transaction-Key.webp)

Then, go to the **API Credentials & Keys** page again from the **Account** section, choose the **New Signature Key** radio button, and click the **Submit** button.

![Signature Key](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/8.-Signature-Key-Submit-button.webp)

Here is your desired **Signature Key**. Copy it by clicking the **Copy to Clipboard** button.

![Copy Signature Key](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/9.-Copy-Signature-Key.webp)

Again, go to the **ACCOUNT** section from the **Navbar**, and click the **Manage Public Client Key** tab under the **Security Settings**.

![Client Key Settings](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/10.-Manage-public-client-key.webp)

Here, you will get your desired **Client Key**. Simply, **copy** it for later use.

![Copy Client Key](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/11.-Copy-Client-Key.webp)

### Provide All Credentials in Authorize.net Settings

Go back to **Payment Gateway** from the **Paymattic Navbar**, click the **Authorize.net** tab, and paste the copied **API Login ID, Transaction Key, Signature Key,** and **Client key** into the respective fields.

You can enter the **Label** of the **Button Text** that you want to be displayed in the payment form during checkout.

Finally, press the **Save Settings** button and your Authorize.net account will be integrated with Paymattic for your WordPress Site.

![Configure Credentials](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/12.-Paste-all-required-credentials-scaled.webp)

## Setup Authorize.net Webhooks

To learn how to configure the **Authorize.net Webhooks** to your WordPress Site, follow the steps with the screenshots below:

::: warning Important
To ensure your Authorize.net dashboard and Paymattic dashboard are in sync, you must configure the Authorize.net Webhooks.
:::

First, copy the **Webhook URL** and recommended **Webhook Events** for smooth transactions based on **Authorize.net** data related. You will need them later to configure Authorize.net Webhooks to your WordPress Site.

![Webhook Settings](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/13.-Copy-webhook-url-and-events-scaled.webp)

Now, visit your [Authorize.net Dashboard](https://developer.authorize.net/hello_world/sandbox.html), go to the **ACCOUNT** section from the **Navbar**, and click the **Webhooks** tab under **Business Settings**.

![Webhooks Section](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/14.-Webhooks-of-authorizedotnet.webp)

Now, Click the **Add Endpoint** button.

![Add Endpoint](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/15.-Add-Endpoint-1.webp)

Now, go to the **Endpoint Info** section, provide a **Name** for your endpoint, paste the **Webhook URL** you copied from the **Authorize.net Settings** page into the **Endpoint URL** field, and select the **Status** as **Active** from the dropdown list.

Then, go to the **Select Events** section, and choose the events recommended by Paymattic for Authorize.net to send to your endpoint by opening the **checkboxes options**.

![Configure Endpoint](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/16.-Paste-webhook-endpoint.webp)

Now, choose the events recommended by Paymattic for Authorize.net to send to your endpoint. You can find your **desired events** by entering their **Name** or **Description** into the **Events** fields, and can **select** **events** by clicking the **checkboxes**.

::: info Webhook Events
The Events recommended by Paymattic are:

- **net.authorize.payment.authcapture.created**: This triggers when a payment is authorized and captured (successfully charged).
- **net.authorize.payment.fraud.approved**: This triggers when a fraud-screened transaction is manually approved.
- **net.authorize.payment.fraud.declined**: This triggers when a transaction is declined due to fraud filters.
- **net.authorize.payment.void.created**: This triggers when a payment is voided (invalidated) before settlement.
- **net.authorize.payment.refund.created**: This triggers when a refund is successfully processed.
- **net.authorize.customer.subscription.cancelled**: This triggers when a customer's subscription is canceled.
- **net.authorize.customer.subscription.expired**: This triggers when a subscription reaches its end date and expires.
- **net.authorize.customer.subscription.expiring**: This triggers when a subscription is about to expire (usually a few days before).
:::

Once you select all the suggested **Webhook Events**, click the **Save** button.
And, the Authorize.net Webhooks will be configured with your WordPress Site!

![Save Webhook Settings](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/17.-Select-Events-and-Save-button-1.webp)

## Integrate Authorize.net in Forms

Once you finish setting up your Authorize.net payment gateway, you can easily integrate this payment method into your WordPress Site through Paymattic Forms.

To learn how to integrate the Authorize.net in Forms, follow the steps below:

First, go to the **All Forms** section from the **Paymattic Navbar**, choose a **Form**, and click the **Pencil/Edit** icon to open the **Editor** page of that form.

::: warning Note
If you do not have any existing form, read the [Create a Form from Scratch](/form-editor/how-to-create-a-form-from-scratch-with-paymattic) or [Create a Form using Templates](/form-editor/simple-form-templates) documentation. For example, I choose an existing form to show the whole process.
:::

![Open Form Editor](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/18.-Open-desired-form-2-scaled.webp)

Once you open the **Editor** page, add the **Payment Method** fields by typing the **"/"** or clicking the **Plus Icon** placed at the bottom.

::: tip Important
Remember, don't forget to add a product field in the form. **For example**, I am adding the [Payment Item](/donation-and-product-fields/how-to-add-payment-item-fields-in-wordpress-with-paymattic) as a Product Field.
:::

![Add Payment Method](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/19.-Click-Plus-Icon-scaled.webp)

Now, open the **Payment Method Fields** section by clicking the **Arrow Icon**, and select the **AuthorizeDotNet** payment field to use this platform as the payment method for this form.

::: warning Important
Remember, the added payment method in your **Form** will not function unless you properly complete the configuration process of payment gateways.

To configure the **Payment Gateway** on your Site, click [here](/payment-method-fields/all-payment-method) and read the **Payment Method Fields**' **Documentation** you selected as a payment method.
:::

![Select Authorize.net](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/20.-Choose-Authorize-Payment-gateway.webp)

## Embed Form into Frontend 

To integrate and display the form on a specific Page/Post, **copy** this **Shortcode** and **paste** it into your desired **Page/Post**.

Once you complete the edit, press the **Save** button to save all the changes you made. To see the **preview** of the form, click the **eye** icon.

![Save Form](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/21.-Save-the-form-scaled.webp)

## Form Preview

Here is the **preview** of the **Form** where you integrate the **Authorize.net** payment method you added. When a user fills the form and clicks the **Submit** button.

![Form Preview](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/22.-Submit-form.webp)

A pop up will appear as shown in the screenshot below to complete the payment process.

![Payment Form](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/23.-preview-of-card-information.webp)

::: tip Need Help?
If you have any questions, concerns, or suggestions, please contact our [@support team](https://wpmanageninja.com/support-tickets/). Thank you.
:::

Commit message:

Configure Authorize.net in WordPress through Paymattic doc update
Configure Authorize.net in WordPress through Paymattic doc update

docs/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net.md, after:

---
title: "Configure Authorize.net in WordPress through Paymattic"
category: "Payment Method Fields"
---
# Configure Authorize.net in WordPress through Paymattic

[Authorize.net](https://www.authorize.net/) is a powerful payment plugin that allows you to secure and efficient transactions for your forms, subscriptions, or e-commerce needs. This article will guide you through **configuring** **Authorize.net** in your **WordPress** **Site** with the **Paymattic** plugin.

## Configuring Authorize.net Payment Method 

To learn how to configure the Authorize.net payment gateway through Paymattic, follow the steps with screenshots below:

First, go to **Payment Gateway** from the **Paymattic Navbar**, click the **Authorize.net** tab from the left sidebar, and the **Authorize.net Settings** page will open.

Click the **Install & Activate Authorizedotnet** button to connect Authorize.net with Paymattic.

::: warning Note
This add-on needs to be installed the first time you integrate with Authorize.net.
:::

![Install Authorize.net](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/1.-Install-Activate-Authorizedotnet-scaled.webp)

Once you are on the **authorize.net Settings** page, select any **Payment Mode** between **Test** (for test payments) and **Live** (for real payments) as both options follow the same configuration process, e.g., I choose the **Test Mode**.

![Payment Mode Settings](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/2.-Authorize-Settings-scaled.webp)

Then, you need to obtain the **API Login ID, Transaction key, Client Key,** and **Signature key** from your **Authorize.net Account**.

::: tip
To easily get access to the dashboard of your authorize.net account, click the **account dashboard** link as shown in the screenshot below.
:::

## Enable E-Check Payment Option

Authorize.net also allows you to accept **E-Check** payments. An **E-Check**, or electronic check, is a payment method that allows customers to pay directly from their bank account (checking or savings) instead of using a credit card.

On the **Authorize.net Settings** page, scroll down below the **API** key fields.

Now, simply click the **toggle** button to activate the **Enable E-Check payment option** as shown in the screenshot.

![Enabling the E-Check payment option in Authorize.net settings](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/authorize-net-enable-echeck.webp)

### Get All the Required Credentials from Authorize.net

To learn how to get **Publishable key** and **Secret Key** from your [Authorize.net](https://www.authorize.net/), follow the steps with screenshots below:

First, log in to your Authorize.net account from [here](https://developer.authorize.net/hello_world/sandbox.html). If you do not have an account, sign up from [here](https://www.authorize.net/sign-up/pricing.html). 

::: info Example
For example, I signed in to a **Sandbox Account** to show you the further process.
:::

![Sandbox Login](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/4.-signin-to-Sandbox--scaled.webp)

Once you log in to the **Authorize.net Dashboard**, go to the **ACCOUNT** section from the **Navbar**, and click the **API Credentials & Keys** tab under the **Security Settings**.

![API Credentials](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/5.-API-Credentials-Keys.webp)

Here, you will get your desired **API Login ID**. Simply, **copy** it for later use.
Also, to get **Transaction** and **Signature Keys**, scroll down to the **Create New Key(s)** section.

Now, select the **New Transaction Key** radio button, and click the **Submit** button.

![API Login ID](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/6.-Copy-API-Login-ID.webp)

Here is your desired **Transaction Key**. Copy it by clicking the **Copy to Clipboard** button.

![Transaction Key](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/6.-Copy-Transaction-Key.webp)

Then, go to the **API Credentials & Keys** page again from the **Account** section, choose the **New Signature Key** radio button, and click the **Submit** button.

![Signature Key](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/8.-Signature-Key-Submit-button.webp)

Here is your desired **Signature Key**. Copy it by clicking the **Copy to Clipboard** button.

![Copy Signature Key](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/9.-Copy-Signature-Key.webp)

Again, go to the **ACCOUNT** section from the **Navbar**, and click the **Manage Public Client Key** tab under the **Security Settings**.

![Client Key Settings](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/10.-Manage-public-client-key.webp)

Here, you will get your desired **Client Key**. Simply, **copy** it for later use.

![Copy Client Key](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/11.-Copy-Client-Key.webp)

### Provide All Credentials in Authorize.net Settings

Go back to **Payment Gateway** from the **Paymattic Navbar**, click the **Authorize.net** tab, and paste the copied **API Login ID, Transaction Key, Signature Key,** and **Client key** into the respective fields.

You can enter the **Label** of the **Button Text** that you want to be displayed in the payment form during checkout.

Finally, press the **Save Settings** button and your Authorize.net account will be integrated with Paymattic for your WordPress Site.

![Configure Credentials](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/12.-Paste-all-required-credentials-scaled.webp)

## Setup Authorize.net Webhooks

To learn how to configure the **Authorize.net Webhooks** to your WordPress Site, follow the steps with the screenshots below:

::: warning Important
To ensure your Authorize.net dashboard and Paymattic dashboard are in sync, you must configure the Authorize.net Webhooks.
:::

First, copy the **Webhook URL** and recommended **Webhook Events** for smooth transactions based on **Authorize.net** data related. You will need them later to configure Authorize.net Webhooks to your WordPress Site.

![Webhook Settings](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/13.-Copy-webhook-url-and-events-scaled.webp)

Now, visit your [Authorize.net Dashboard](https://developer.authorize.net/hello_world/sandbox.html), go to the **ACCOUNT** section from the **Navbar**, and click the **Webhooks** tab under **Business Settings**.

![Webhooks Section](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/14.-Webhooks-of-authorizedotnet.webp)

Now, Click the **Add Endpoint** button.

![Add Endpoint](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/15.-Add-Endpoint-1.webp)

Now, go to the **Endpoint Info** section, provide a **Name** for your endpoint, paste the **Webhook URL** you copied from the **Authorize.net Settings** page into the **Endpoint URL** field, and select the **Status** as **Active** from the dropdown list.

Then, go to the **Select Events** section, and choose the events recommended by Paymattic for Authorize.net to send to your endpoint by opening the **checkboxes options**.

![Configure Endpoint](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/16.-Paste-webhook-endpoint.webp)

Now, choose the events recommended by Paymattic for Authorize.net to send to your endpoint. You can find your **desired events** by entering their **Name** or **Description** into the **Events** fields, and can **select** **events** by clicking the **checkboxes**.

::: info Webhook Events
The Events recommended by Paymattic are:

- **net.authorize.payment.authcapture.created**: This triggers when a payment is authorized and captured (successfully charged).
- **net.authorize.payment.fraud.approved**: This triggers when a fraud-screened transaction is manually approved.
- **net.authorize.payment.fraud.declined**: This triggers when a transaction is declined due to fraud filters.
- **net.authorize.payment.void.created**: This triggers when a payment is voided (invalidated) before settlement.
- **net.authorize.payment.refund.created**: This triggers when a refund is successfully processed.
- **net.authorize.customer.subscription.cancelled**: This triggers when a customer's subscription is canceled.
- **net.authorize.customer.subscription.expired**: This triggers when a subscription reaches its end date and expires.
- **net.authorize.customer.subscription.expiring**: This triggers when a subscription is about to expire (usually a few days before).
:::

Once you select all the suggested **Webhook Events**, click the **Save** button.
And, the Authorize.net Webhooks will be configured with your WordPress Site!

![Save Webhook Settings](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/17.-Select-Events-and-Save-button-1.webp)

## Integrate Authorize.net in Forms

Once you finish setting up your Authorize.net payment gateway, you can easily integrate this payment method into your WordPress Site through Paymattic Forms.

To learn how to integrate the Authorize.net in Forms, follow the steps below:

First, go to the **All Forms** section from the **Paymattic Navbar**, choose a **Form**, and click the **Pencil/Edit** icon to open the **Editor** page of that form.

::: warning Note
If you do not have any existing form, read the [Create a Form from Scratch](/form-editor/how-to-create-a-form-from-scratch-with-paymattic) or [Create a Form using Templates](/form-editor/simple-form-templates) documentation. For example, I choose an existing form to show the whole process.
:::

![Open Form Editor](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/18.-Open-desired-form-2-scaled.webp)

Once you open the **Editor** page, add the **Payment Method** fields by typing the **"/"** or clicking the **Plus Icon** placed at the bottom.

::: tip Important
Remember, don't forget to add a product field in the form. **For example**, I am adding the [Payment Item](/donation-and-product-fields/how-to-add-payment-item-fields-in-wordpress-with-paymattic) as a Product Field.
:::

![Add Payment Method](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/19.-Click-Plus-Icon-scaled.webp)

Now, open the **Payment Method Fields** section by clicking the **Arrow Icon**, and select the **AuthorizeDotNet** payment field to use this platform as the payment method for this form.

::: warning Important
Remember, the added payment method in your **Form** will not function unless you properly complete the configuration process of payment gateways.

To configure the **Payment Gateway** on your Site, click [here](/payment-method-fields/all-payment-method) and read the **Payment Method Fields**' **Documentation** you selected as a payment method.
:::

![Select Authorize.net](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/20.-Choose-Authorize-Payment-gateway.webp)

## Embed Form into Frontend 

To integrate and display the form on a specific Page/Post, **copy** this **Shortcode** and **paste** it into your desired **Page/Post**.

Once you complete the edit, press the **Save** button to save all the changes you made. To see the **preview** of the form, click the **eye** icon.

![Save Form](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/21.-Save-the-form-scaled.webp)

## Form Preview

Here is the **preview** of the **Form** where you integrate the **Authorize.net** payment method you added. When a user fills the form and clicks the **Submit** button.

![Form Preview](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/22.-Submit-form.webp)

A pop up will appear as shown in the screenshot below to complete the payment process.

![Payment Form](/images/payment-method-fields/configure-authorize-net/23.-preview-of-card-information.webp)

::: tip Need Help?
If you have any questions, concerns, or suggestions, please contact our [@support team](https://wpmanageninja.com/support-tickets/). Thank you.
:::
